Abstract
--------

The traditional definition of a personal work place as a desk in a cubical is slowly, but surely, on its way to be a thing of the past. The amount of people working remotely, both self-employed and not, has literally exploded in the wake of the dramatic increase of widely available, often free, internet connectivity. 3.7 Million people in the U.S. is already working remotely at least half of the time (US Census Bureau) and working from home among non-self-employed is up more than 100% since 2005. When given the choice, as many as 80-90% of the US workforce said that they would choose to do so if they could.

The ability to work remotely is very much decided on what kind of work you do. Most non-self-employed people who work remotely today only need access to a computer to get their work done. In the engineering work community, working remotely is no impediment in areas such as architecture, electronic CAD or in most software development roles. The more dependant you are on having access to other tools than your computer however, the less likely you are to be able to work remotely, even if that would be desirable both for the employee and employer.

Wishing electrical engineering, embedded software development is just one area of engineering that very often rely heavily on other tools than just a computer. It comes with the territory, working with electronics is bound to put you in front of a logic analyser as well as one development board or another some day. The more hardware and tools, the less the likelihood of being able to work remotely or, at the very least, increased friction of starting to do so. Dragging kits and equipments to and from work is not only tedious, it also brings with it the risk of physical breakage or ESD related damages of both hardware and tools. In addition, not everyone has the option of having a permanent electronics lab at home, so starting to work often means setting everything up and wrapping it up means packing it all up again.

This aim of this thesis is to define and, in part, implement, a suggestion for an architecture that would enable software developers to remotely develop and debug real embedded software. This thesis will peer into existing work which could be harnessed, look into the pros and cons of simulations versus real hardware, take a deep-dive into developing and debugging SW on a remote target as well as looking into how to stimulate inputs and view outputs remotely. It will also take a look into attaching virtual tools to the target, such as logic analysers or serial port emulators.

The architecture itself will be developed with the latest advances in mind, in everything from scalable software containers to combined MCU-FPGA systems. The intention is to come up with an architecture that covers the most common use-cases of embedded software development and one that can scale from one remote developer to thousands.

